Hello and welcome back to the course on deep learning.
Today we're kicking off convolution evolution all neural networks is gonna be exciting.
Let's dive straight into it.
We're going to start off with an image.
What do you see when you look at this image.
Do you see a person looking at you or do you see a person looking to the right.
You can see that your brain is is struggling is struggling to adjust.
If you look to the right side of the image just look at the right border of there which you'll see a
person looking to the right.
If you look at the left border of the image you'll see a person looking at you.
And this just proves that what our brain is looking for when we see things is features depending on
the features that it sees depending on the features that you process you categorize things in certain
ways.
So when you look on the right side of the image you see certain features of a person looking to the
right because they're closer to your center of focus and therefore your brain classifies as that as
a person looking to the right.
When you look to the left side of the image you see more features of a person looking at you and therefore
your brain classifies it as such.
So let's have a look at another one.
This is a very famous image you probably have already seen it.
But what do you see here.
So some people will say that they see a young lady wearing a dress looking away.
Some people say they see an old lady wearing a scarf on her head looking down.
So I'm going to point these features out and you'll see that will become very obvious.
So this is the face of the young lady looking away.
She's looking into the distance that's her coat that's her hair that's her little feather in her hair
and on the other hand this is the head of the old lady looking down that's her nose that's her mouth
that's her chin that's the scarf on her head and she's looking down.
So as you can see two in one and depending on which features your brain picks up it will switch between
classifying each the image as one or the other.
Now all this one of these illusions recorded in the printed work is this one it's the duck or the rabbit.
So is this a duck or is this a rabbit.
Another example.
And now I'm going to show an image which will just for a second just look at it and see what what's
what emotions or what kind of experience visual experience you go through.
So what do you see does you feel like a bit not dizzy but a bill a of a bedazzled like your brain is
trying to try and understand what it is what it is like.
It's trying to is jumping between her eyes up and down eyes and this is a classic example of when there
are certain features where it could be this it could be that but your brain cannot decide.
And because both seem plausible and yes so basically all these examples illustrate to us how the brain
works that it processes certain features on an image or on whatever you see in in real life.
And it classifies that as such and you probably have been in situations when you look over your shoulder
quickly and you see something you think it's I don't know if it's like a a a ball but it turns out to
be a cat or you think it's a it's a car but turns out to be a shadow and things like that because you
don't have enough time to process those features or you don't have enough features to classify things
as such.
And this is for me is this is very interesting because what we're going to be doing with neural networks
with convolution or neural networks is very similar and you'll find that the way that computers are
going to be processing images is going to be extremely similar to the way we are processing images.
So it is very valuable to understand and just kind of remember these things that this is how we do it.
And I'm going to take this lady off your screens because she's probably already freaking out by now.
So here's something different here's an experiment an experiment done on computers on conventional neural
networks so we're slowly moving now from humans to computers and this slide is a is from a told by Jeffrey
Hinton.
And here you have basically describes an experiment that he had done on some conventional neural networks
that he had trained up.
So here you see three images and we're going to go through them we'll have to wait and see how you would
classify them and then see how the computer classify them.
So on the left to what do you think this is.
You probably said cheetah and you will be right.
And this is what the computer said so and the right.
Right away right off the bat we're going to learn how to read these images because if you're going to
go deep into call or neural networks no pun intended if you're going to start learning more and more
about them and using them you'll see a lot of these.
So and I've actually seen people read them incorrectly so here at the top Qaeda is what it actually
is.
So that's the actual correct label of the image.
That's what the label of the images.
Regardless of any processing and view computer vision.
And then here are the guesses the top four or five sometimes guesses of the algorithm.
And they're given the probability so the computer is said or the neural network said cheetah leopard.
Snow Leopard or Egyptian cat can be one of the four and cheetah has the highest vote.
And throughout this part of the course you will understand what these votes mean and how they are derived.
But for now it's pretty intuitive right so it's a cheetah in reality and the neural network guessed
right.
It said for hyperbole about like ninety five million eight percent it's a chimp.
Then the second one.
What do you think does it that is that it is a bullet train and the neural network was able to distinguish
between bullet train passenger car subway train electric locomotive.
Those are the top choices of course.
It had many more options these neural networks learned to distinguish from not just for categories from
dozens thousands of categories at the same time.
So those are the four options that it picked.
And so that's a bullet train and it's a train.
So what do you think the last one is very very.
There are a couple of options.
It's not very clear what is it could be a frying pan could be a magnifying glass it could be even maybe
a pair of scissors some might say well the neural network said it was a pair of scissors but you can
see how you can go wrong here.
First of all it's not a very clear image and also you can see that the probabilities are not as clear
here as the neural network was a bit confused a bit indecisive just as we are.
So it said scissors with the highest probability but then it had hand glass which had actually was with
not not so far away on second place and frying pan stethoscope.
So basically here you can see that scissors was its first guess but the correct option was number two
and that's why it's highlighted in red.
So there we go.
Those that's what neural networks are already capable of and this is actually quite an old slide.
This was several years ago.
Now they're even better and you will see that from the practical application that you'll be coding together
Hudlin.
But now let's try trying to set a bit better what converts or evolution or neural networks actually
are and why are they gaining so much popularity and they actually are gaining popularity so you can
see here a Google Trends comparison I did just yesterday.
Here you can see that convenient can relational neural networks are even taking over artificial neural
networks.
So a massive increase and this is going to keep going that way because it is a very important field
that that is where all the things happen such as like self-driving cars.
How do they recognize people on the road how to recognize stop signs and things like that how do how
does Facebook host Facebook able to tag images or people in images and not only just like remember previously
years ago you had to take people yourself then it would recognize faces you had to add many.
Add the names and now it just recognizes the faces and add the names at the same time.
Well that is what kind of delusional neural networks are capable of.
And speaking of Facebook if Geoffrey Hinton is the godfather of artificial neural networks and deep
learning then a young Lachlan is the grandfather of convert delusional neural networks young lagoon
is a student of Geoffrey Hinton's and in fact here you can see them together and Geoffrey Hinton now
is pioneering Deep Learning in at Google Yang kun is the director of Facebook artificial intelligence
research and also a professor at NYU.
So we're slowly aware I love this part of the course slowly we're building up this name.
These names are this kind of picture of the profiles of the people who are driving this field and next
in the next couple of parts will get to know about a few more and we'll have this whole Mafia as they
call themselves or you could call them mafia or conspiracy of deep learning and you'll learn a bit more
about how this whole field developed and yeah it's just these are just some great great people.
And so young looking back in the 80s and the 90s made significant contributions to their field of evolution
or neural networks.
And as we'll see throughout this course has been able to develop or help the world develop something
so extremely powerful.
So moving onto how can delusional neural networks work.
You have an input it's very simple it's very straightforward.
So you have an input image it goes through the conditional neural network and you have an the label
so it classifies that image as something like as a Cheeto or a bullet train or something else.
Now kind of like going into a bit more detail.
For instance you can after a neural network has been trained up on uncertain images on certain classified
images or categorized images prior.
There have been Cairo's prior.
After that you can give it let's say and unilaterally has been trained up to recognize facial expressions
emotions you can give in a face of a smiling person is not just a face like a drawing of a face like
this but actual face or a person smiling.
And I'll tell you that that person is happy and you can give her a face of a person that's frowning.
It will tell you that the person is sad.
You can recognize these emotions and as you can see that's already very powerful in terms of so many
different applications just this one example you can think of right away.
And in both cases it'll give you a probability so it won't say you know if we're 100 percent the person's
happy or sad it'll be ninety nine or many eight or maybe 80 percent when it's unclear of what's going
on and just like we are right sometimes we can mistake things for what they're not.
Or sometimes we can sometimes it's just not clear if the person is smiling or frowning or if it's if
it's a dog or a cat or if it's a train or a bullet train all right sometimes we don't have.
We haven't seen enough features and all goes down to features because that's how we process visual information
as we saw from the start of this tutorial.
So but how does a neural network.
How does a neural network able to recognize these features.
Well it all starts at the very basic level you have let's say you have an image you have two images.
One is a black and white image of two by two pixels and one is a colored image of two by two pixels.
While neural networks leverage the fact that the black and white image is a two dimensional array.
So the way we see it right now on the left is just the visual representation.
So it's some kind of picture.
And for simplicity's sake is just a two way two picture but in computer terms it's actually a two dimensional
array with every single one of those pixels having a value between zero and China and 55.
So that's 8 8 bits of information to the two to the power of eight is 256.
So therefore the values are from 0 to 255.
And that's the intensity of the color.
And in this case the color white so 0 will be a completely black pixel 255 will be a completely white
pixel and between them you have the grayscale range of possible options for this pixel.
And based on that information computers are able to then work off the image and that's kind of like
the starting point that any image is actually has a digital representation has a digital form.
And those are just basically ones and zeros that form a number of 0 to 255 for every single pixel.
That's what the computer looks for if it doesn't actually work with you know colors or anything works
with the ones and zeros at the end of the day.
That's as kind of like the foundation of it all.
And in a colored image it's actually a three dimensional array.
You've got blue pixel you've got a blue Larry Green layer and a red layer and and that says for RG Big
Red Green Blue.
And each one of those colors has its own intensity.
So basically a pixel has 3 3 values assigned to it each one of them is between 0 and 256 255.
And therefore you can find out what's this image.
What color exactly this pixel is by combining those three values and again computers are going to be
working with that.
So that's the foundation of it all that's the red channel the green channel the blue channel.
And finally let's have a look at for instance an example a very trivial example of a smiling face in
in computer terms if we just really simplify things instead of having from 0 to 255 instead of having
those values just so that we can understand things better and really grasp the concepts we're going
to say zero is is white one is black.
Right.
So we're just going to simplify things to the extreme and you will see that that image can be represented
like that.
So the reason why we've brought this up is because we're going to all of our interest in story as we
get a structure on images like this which are very simple but at the same time then all of those concepts
can translate back to the 0 2 256 range of values and everything applies the same way.
And the steps that we're going to be going through with these images are September 1 convolution.
Step number two max pulling.
Step number three flattening and step number for full connection and I can imagine that probably none
of these words mean much to you at the moment.
But by the end of this section of the course you will understand them in great detail and exactly what
they're doing so we'll get started the next material.
For now the additional reading that you might want to look into is a young Lukens original paper that
gave the rise to coalition of neural networks.
It's called gradient based learning applied to documentary cognition.
You may have seen this image before floating around the Internet.
It is from that paper so if you want to go back to the very beginnings of how it all happened where
it all came from.
This is the paper to look into and I look forward to seeing on the next story.
Until then enjoy deep learning.